Creamy Garlic Pork Chops

Prep Time: 10 mins
Cook Time: 20 mins
Total Time: 30 mins

Ingredients:
4 pork chops see notes
Salt & pepper to taste
1 tablespoon olive oil
2 tablespoons butter divided
1 whole head garlic cloves peeled
1 tablespoon flour
1/2 cup chicken broth or stock
1/2 teaspoon lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
3/4 cup heavy/whipping cream
Fresh parsley chopped (optional, to taste)

Instructions:
1. Take the pork chops out of the fridge 15-30 minutes prior to starting the recipe if possible. 
Season the pork generously with salt & pepper on both sides.

2. In a deep skillet, add the olive oil and 1 tablespoon of the butter over medium-high heat. Let the pan heat 
up for a few minutes, and once it's hot, cook the pork chops for 3-5 minutes/side or until golden 
(3 minutes for thinner chops and 5 minutes for pork chops up to 1" thick). Once the pork chops are done searing, 
transfer them to a plate.

3. Add the remaining butter and the garlic cloves to the skillet. Turn the heat down to medium 
(or medium-low if using cast iron). Cook it, stirring fairly often, for about 3 minutes or until the garlic has 
somewhat browned on the outside.

4. Push the garlic to one side of the pan and sprinkle the flour in (avoiding the garlic). Let it cook for 
around 30 seconds, and give it a stir so it's incorporated with the butter (we're making a quick roux).

5. Add in the chicken broth and lemon juice. Stir and let it cook for about a minute or until the sauce is noticeably thickened.

6. Add in the cream and garlic powder. Stir or whisk it until the garlic powder has dissolved.

7.Add the pork back in and cook for another 3-5 minutes or until the sauce has thickened up a bit 
(let the sauce bubble a bit but not furiously boil) and the pork chops are fully cooked through (145F minimum). 
Keep in mind the pork's temperature will continue to rise once you stop cooking it, so if it's close, I'd take it off 
the heat and let it rest for a few minutes before serving. Season the sauce with extra salt & pepper as needed and
parsley if you wish.

